Customer Cloud Deployment documentation (#12)
strmprivacy/docs: docs/quickstart/ccd.md

---
title: Customer Cloud Deployments
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

[github]: https://github.com/strmprivacy/data-plane-helm-chart/tree/master
[oma]: https://backstage.strm.in/docs/default/component/organization-management-and-access/

> [jk]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ymb8JPaOflX8GZzICV6WCE_L0GGLRrBAPtk0dgeHJdc/edit

Reviewer: These two can be removed

[telepresence]: https://www.telepresence.io/

> [sinks]: https://docs.strmprivacy.io/docs/latest/quickstart/receiving-s3/#create-sink

Reviewer: Updated ref for suggestions to S3 section:
```suggestion
[data-connector]: https://docs.strmprivacy.io/docs/latest/quickstart/batch-exporter/#creating-a-data-connector
```

[ovh-ingress]: https://docs.ovh.com/au/en/kubernetes/installing-nginx-ingress/
[profile]: https://console.strmprivacy.io/upgrading
[values]: https://console.strmprivacy.io/installation/configuration
[confluent]: https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/quickstart/ce-docker-quickstart.html#cp-quickstart-step-1
[makefile]: https://github.com/strmprivacy/data-plane-helm-chart/blob/master/Makefile

This hands-on sessions shows how to get up-and-running with your Customer Cloud Deployment, and verify its
functionality.

## Get an account with a 'Self Hosted' subscription

> Your [Strm profile page][profile] should show: "Current subscription: Self hosted". Get in touch with your Strm

Reviewer: `Strm` should be all-caps here and elswehere in this quickstart.

representative if you're on a Free or Business subscription.

> Once you have this profile active, you can start.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you're on a self hosted subscription, you can proceed with this quickstart guide.
```

## Install the following tools

* `make` (optional). The Helm repository contains handy `make` targets such as _install_, _upgrade_, _wipe_. None of
  these are mandatory, one can also execute the commands in the [`Makefile`][makefile] by hand.
* [`kubectl`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)

> * [`helm`](http://helm.sh). This Kubernetes package manager is used for installing (and upgrading) your Strm customer

Reviewer 2: Maybe explicitly state that helm is mandatory.

  dataplane.

> * [`telepresence`][telepresence]. This tool allows your development computer to become _part of_ the k8s cluster, so

Reviewer 2: This is optional, right?

  that you can directly access k8s services.
* [`k9s`](https://github.com/derailed/k9s) (optional). This _textual user interface_ offers a very convenient way to interact with
  kubernetes clusters.
* [`kubectx and kubens`](https://github.com/ahmetb/kubectx) (optional). Very useful tools to switch the default
  kubernetes context and namespace.

## Start the installation of the Strm customer data-plane

> 1. download the credentials file `values.yaml` [here][values] into the `data-plane-helm-chart` directory.

Reviewer: I think this should be the last step in this list.

> 1. download the credentials file `values.yaml` [here][values] into the `data-plane-helm-chart` directory.

Reviewer 2: The link "here" is almost unreadable, partly because it's next to another blue text. I missed the link completely.
Maybe rephrase it to "from the console", to make it stand out a bit more.

1. make sure you have active kubernetes credentials to a cluster: `kubectl get nodes` should show the nodes of your
   cluster.

> 1. Create a namespace `strmprivacy` and set that as default (`kubens strmprivacy`)

Reviewer: Perhaps we can add the kubectl command to create the namespace.
```suggestion
1. Create a namespace `strmprivacy` (`kubectl create namespace strmprivacy`) and set that as default (`kubens strmprivacy`)
```

1. `git clone https://github.com/strmprivacy/data-plane-helm-chart.git`. In the near future this will become part of a
   Helm repository, and this command will become `helm repo add ...`
1. `cd data-plane-helm-chart`

> The `values.yaml` file should be something like this
> 
>     registry:
>       imagePullSecret: "ewogIC...."
> 
>     license:
>       installationId: "f4cea...."
>       installationClientId: "ins-...."
>       installationClientSecret: "tii...."
> 
>     kafka:
>       enabled: true
> 
>     redis:
>       enabled: true
> 
>     postgresql:
>       enabled: true

Reviewer: We can make this a yaml listing:
```suggestion
The `values.yaml` file should be similar to this:

```yaml
  registry:
    imagePullSecret: "ewogIC...."

  license:
    installationId: "f4cea...."
    installationClientId: "ins-...."
    installationClientSecret: "tii...."

  kafka:
    enabled: true

  redis:
    enabled: true

  postgresql:
    enabled: true
```
```

## Create the helm release

This installs _all_ the Strm components inside the `strmprivacy` namespace.

`make install` should be all that is needed. `kubectl get pods --watch` or `k9s` provides nice feedback to see how the
installation is progressing. We see that some supporting infrastructure like Redis, Postgresql and Kafka are also
installed. The creation of these components can be disabled, in which case configuration to the actual components will
have to be added to the Helm chart.

### Create in a different namespace

> **this is broken, don't use it**
> 
> You'll have to add `namespace=...` to every `make` command (or modify the `Makefile`)
> 
>     make namespace namespace=mycustomnamespace
>     make install namespace=mycustomnamespace
> 
> The install seems to work correctly but trying to send events seems to go into some black
> hole. *to be investigated*

Reviewer: I think we can phrase this differently:
```suggestion
:::warning
This is still a work in progress, so do not use it yet.
:::

Add `namespace=...` to every `make` command (or modify the `Makefile`)

    make namespace namespace=mycustomnamespace
    make install namespace=mycustomnamespace
```

> hole. *to be investigated*

Reviewer 2: This text should really be removed. It looks very clumsy to first say something is broken, then explain how it works and then again mention that it doesn't work.
For now just add the text that installing in another namespace than `strmprivacy` is not yet fully operational.

## Trying again

If you've made mistakes and want to start over:

1. `make uninstall` cleanly uninstalls the helm release
1. `kubectl delete ns strmprivacy` kills everything (including the k8s namespace). Don't forget to recreate the
   namespace afterwards.

> `make wipe` combines the above two steps

Reviewer 2: Maybe this chapter should be placed at the bottom? I'm not sure.

    kafka-headless                    None             9092/TCP,9093/TCP
    postgres                          10.3.125.90      5432/TCP
    postgres-hl                       None             5432/TCP
    redis-hallo-headless              None             6379/TCP
    redis-hallo-master                10.3.80.116      6379/TCP
    redis-hallo-replicas              10.3.228.64      6379/TCP
    strmprivacy-zookeeper             10.3.229.219     2181/TCP,2888/TCP,3888/TCP
    strmprivacy-zookeeper-headless    None             2181/TCP,2888/TCP,3888/TCP
    web-socket                        10.3.21.178      80/TCP

Because you've create a derived stream (`test-2`) we should be able to see a decrypter deployment:

    kubectl get deployments.apps  -l app=decrypter-v2

    NAME                                             READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
    decrypter-a268aea6-4b5b-4241-b833-9a84f4f44bc4   1/1     1            1           93m

You could use `kubectl describe deployment decrypter...` to see the annotations on the deployment, and see that it is
indeed processing your `test-2` stream

### Sending events with the cli

> In order to use the cli to simulated data, you'll need to send the events via telepresence, using the `events-api-url`
> parameter (that you could also store in the strm config file (`strm context config`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To simulate events with our cli, the `events-api-url` paramater must be set to the host exposed via telepresence (the url can also be set in the strm config file (`strm context config`).
```

    {"strmMeta": {"eventContractRef": "strmprivacy/example/1.3.0", "nonce": -45323834, "timestamp": 1652181230893, "keyLink": "9ced67fc-9227-4fb2-846b-1eed521db941", "billingId": "strmprodccdtest1908747604", "consentLevels": [0, 1, 2]}, "uniqueIdentifier": "AWzkJjeWufjZehXNpWLUQ63CG1O8jxCU6MOd3Seo", "consistentValue": "AWzkJjd3cB+36sCrtT6va3YLjCa5qw55Iy5/HevIcVU=", "someSensitiveValue": "AWzkJjcsrjNHbZCAjlEYCBdlpOVK8+eXIx6BSBDxH8VQ", "notSensitiveValue": "not-sensitive-42"}

Or a derived stream

    strm listen web-socket test-2 --web-socket-url ws://web-socket.strmprivacy/ws

    {"strmMeta": {"eventContractRef": "strmprivacy/example/1.3.0", "nonce": -1742873135, "timestamp": 1652181297380, "keyLink": "556c1be7-4332-4058-9d36-5e3e5a66e121", "billingId": "strmprodccdtest1908747604", "consentLevels": [0, 1, 2]}, "uniqueIdentifier": "unique-81", "consistentValue": "session-922", "someSensitiveValue": "AQM0jlnxbeNZSJzvJWLpnMjyYET1Jb1Yz+5yZVB5i6Dq", "notSensitiveValue": "not-sensitive-78"}

### Kafka
Install [Confluent client tools][confluent]. You don't have to start Confluent, you only need to add the `bin` directory
of the unpacked confluent tar file  to your `$PATH`.

> > There is currently no supported way for non Strmprivacy engineers to determine the Kafka topic name.
>   Exposing this information is a priority.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::note
Currently, only STRM Privacy engineers can determine the Kafka topic name.
Exposing this information is a priority. For now, ask a STRM engineer for this information.
:::
```

You can access the input topic of a decrypter as follows

    kubectl get deployments.apps decrypter-... -o=jsonpath='{.metadata.annotations.input-topic}'

    stream-a268aea6-4b5b-4241-b833-9a84f4f44bc4

> I haven't thought of a way to access the topic of a derived stream yet. Ask the Strm support engineers, they can access

Reviewer 2: There should not be "I" in such a text as we speak on behalf of the company. Also, there is no visible author, so who is "I"?

> the production database to find the topic name.

Reviewer: With above suggestion, I think we can remove this.

> the production database to find the topic name.

Reviewer 2: Let's remove the explicit "access the production database to".

    1867d5ad-f1fb-4faa-af98-f863a4f9e3e4    {"strmMeta":{"eventContractRef":"strmprivacy/example/1.3.0","nonce":{"int":-810110116},"timestamp":{"long":1652181101870},"keyLink":{"string":"1867d5ad-f1fb-4faa-af98-f863a4f9e3e4"},"billingId":{"string":"strmprodccdtest1908747604"},"consentLevels":[]},"uniqueIdentifier":{"string":"AR5VVyfQsta+D1XDKcPiR0sC1oE3yy301W2FMVJ9"},"consistentValue":"AR5VVydsWvZG+FkvlOFEUZCvlFY4rSpVHs1njIE8tg==","someSensitiveValue":{"string":"AR5VVyfO8S3djArRlS6ZaI4oefWUjEt9XRnT/f2r6vc="},"notSensitiveValue":{"string":"not-sensitive-84"}}
    5afc9c0a-de67-4e38-bd0a-66640f4349c7    {"strmMeta":{"eventContractRef":"strmprivacy/example/1.3.0","nonce":{"int":1699175479},"timestamp":{"long":1652181101896},"keyLink":{"string":"5afc9c0a-de67-4e38-bd0a-66640f4349c7"},"billingId":{"string":"strmprodccdtest1908747604"},"consentLevels":[0,1,2,3]},"uniqueIdentifier":{"string":"ASotb1YzBuuBBM981rLIzQd/EZA7Em7dxyaBg7vE"},"consistentValue":"ASotb1bYf1G/2ye4h6ELE4hlkVGZGKSt3LQe0AnZU+k=","someSensitiveValue":{"string":"ASotb1bb51OCfM9HdCqcAjTLtXqK67EuBQicTpNzIvv/"},"notSensitiveValue":{"string":"not-sensitive-95"}}

### Exporting to an s3 bucket

> Create the s3 bucket and the associated `sink` (soon to be renamed to `data-connector`). See [docs][sinks] for details

Reviewer 2: Isn't data-connector the name already?

> ### Exporting to an s3 bucket
> 
> Create the s3 bucket and the associated `sink` (soon to be renamed to `data-connector`). See [docs][sinks] for details
> about the setup.
> 
>     strm creat sink s3 --sink-type S3 .... // see [docs][sinks]
> 
>     strm create batch-exporter test-2 --sink s3 --path-prefix ccd-prod-ovh
> 
> You should see a batch-exporter come to live:

Reviewer: Updated for data connectors:

```suggestion
### Exporting to an S3 bucket

Create the S3 bucket and the associated `data connector`. See [docs][data-connector] for details
about the credentials configuration.

    strm create data-connector s3 s3-connector --credentials-file=...

    strm create batch-exporter test-2 --data-connector s3-connector --path-prefix ccd-prod-ovh

You should see a newly-created batch-exporter deployment:
```

    kubectl get deployments.apps  -l app=batch-exporter
    NAME                                                  READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
    batch-exporter-c726bbff-2b68-4438-ac0d-ee877aa4dabf   1/1     1            1           2m49s

> If you're running data, you should see files in your s3 bucket quickly

Reviewer 2: Is "running data" a common way of saying that it works?
